The Joe Rogan experience.
What other episodes of my, of my puck.
Uh, cause.
I launched Warner. I launched it off of this one.
Yes. I listened to Warner Herzog. Yeah. I thought that was interesting.
Although he's a little bit self-congraulatory, which is a little shocking.
But he is the most interesting.
Man in the universe. Yeah. He's a very interesting guy. Yeah.
He's also been in some really terrible movies.
Like he was in that Jack Reacher movie with Tom cruise.
The best part about that movie is that he drives a Chael 1970 chall don't know
about this. You don't know about 70 chavells. Did you listen to the Brett up.
Brett? Uh, episode Brett.
Weinstein. Oh your brother. No, I did not listen to that one. Okay.
I've only listened to five or six.
If you listen to, to episode 19, which is the Brett episode,
I think that's been the most important one except for the one released today.
That sounds like you gear me up for the one released today.
Well, um, I, what is it? I would start with the,
I would start with the Brett one and what's.
So important about the Brett one.
Um, the Brett one is a story about his prediction,
uh, that all the laboratory mice that we use from the major supplier,
which is the Jackson laboratory in bar Harbor,
Maine may have been compromised by their breeding protocols,
which allowed the telomes to radically elongate.
And that we thought that these mice were represented of Al mice and that they
had radically elongated telomes at the end of their chromosomes,
which appear to mediate the level of mitosis that can happen during,
uh, histological repair. So if you imagine that your,
your cells can divide a certain number of times, if, if there isn't a counter
that stops the number of visions, everything can become tumors.
And since you have like 30 trillion or a hundred trillion cells in your body,
it means every cell, uh, almost can kill you.
So it appears that the reason we may die,
uh fromsescence that is aging is that that's our anti-cancer
mechanism.
So if you eliminate like infectious disease use like viruses and insult from,
you know, being hit by a car,
the two things that you have in the end is, uh,
either you die from imortality, which is cancer,
which where cells can divide an infinite number of times,
or you die from the recursion limit,
which is how many times the cell can divide called in biology, the heflic limit.
And Brett predicted from first principles that what we thought about mice,
which is that they have radically elongated telomes was only true for laboratory
animals because all the laboratory animals in which we test things like drugs
have been broken.
They've been broken because of selective breeding. Yep.
Because the breeding rotations, um,
privileged my younger mice and removed all sort of, uh,
threats from the environment. And so, because telome are not protein coding,
there are sequences of neleotides that repeat as a counter rather than coding
for a translation, uh, in the ribizsome in,
into amino acid sequences. Um,
what you have is is that the body can, um,
mutate, if you will,
to use the Jackson laborator's concept of this very rapidly,
because it's not building something structural, it's just a question of,
do we have 17 on the end or 170 on the end because
that it's, it's acting, uh,
nucleic acid has multiple ways in which it can participate in regulating,
um, the body's responses. So in fact,
the BR breeding protocols constituted a novel system of selective pressures
that the efficacy of all of our laboratory animals potentially.
Holy. So that.
Was, and so he predicted from first principles, he said,
I bet if you test wild type mice, rather than laboratory mice,
you'll find that their telomes are not long as you believe. And this was, um,
actually carried out by carolreider who did not acknowledge the prediction.
She didn't acknowledge the prediction. You should listen to the show.
Why did she not acknowledge the, you should listen to.
The show. So it's, it's a okay. It's no, cuz it's, it's it's this is serious.
It' complicated. And it's a Nobel Laureate on the other side of this.
So we're taking some risk over the, over there at the portal.
That's really interesting.
So the consequences of this could be grave
could be that so much of the studies that are predicated on these mice tests
are they're useless.
Well, I've called up the Jackson laboratory and asked them when did,
have you had any changes in your breeding protocol? Are you, they say,
we don't even count the number of telir thetelome length. And I say,
do you have a history of when you've changed the protocols,
are you aware of these articles? And she said like, what? I said, you know,
these articles of Carol Reder and they said, how do you spell glider?
Like the plane? I said, Reder like the Nobel Laureate.
And how do you spell that? <laugh> G, R E I D E R.
And um, so, and then I, and then they said to me,
well, we don't remember if we've changed the protocols. I said,
you're producing laboratory animals.
I would imagine you would have a documented history of every change in the time
series of how these animals were prepared. Like, well,
I don't know if there's anyone around from that time. It's like, are,
are you kidding? Were you absent the day they taught science?
Who are you? You know,
this is like a single point of failure. If true. I can't even,
we've been at for 20 years, we've been trying to get an answer as 20 years.
No one will break the story. I mean, this episode,
which is almost impossible to listen to because at the beginning of the episode,
I'm absolutely insufferable to Brett because he won't tell the story.
He's afraid to tell his own life story.
Why won't he tell the story?
Because in academics,
the idea of some punk kid alleging that they predicted
in a telephone call to a Nobel Laureate,
that if they would test wild type mice,
the telomes would be radically Elong, uh,
radically shorter than the elongated telomes of the laboratory test. And,
and then the person refuses to acknowledge
that such a prediction was made, even though we have emails from the lab that.
Um, so she refuses to acknowledge it or she doesn't acknowledge.
It. I cannot find a single I've been over the literature.
There is no mention anywhere of, and I,
I, I live this with bread in real time. So I, I,
I know the events were happening. We have communications with that lab. Um,
since there is, I cannot find any acknowledgement,
uh, from the Johns Hopkins university laboratory that this, uh,
interaction ever took place.
And that because he called and wrote and did not write an email,
he did not have a paper trail of that prediction.
Now there's consequential consequential emails that show the
interaction between the labs. But, um,
how many times have you ever heard anyone predict a molecular result from
first principles, an evolutionary theory,
this is what Brett was supposed to be famous for. And then, you know,
he became like this obscure professor at some ridiculous college,
and then this thing happened to him, but that's not his origin story.
His origin story is that he is the badass of biology, um,
who was able to make this prediction from first principles and may advance the
theory of why we have to die balance between deaths from imortality that is
tumors and deaths from recursion limits.
That is tmome mediated hayflix hayflic limits.
So what if anything has been done since this information has gotten out.
Um,
the world went crazy for the episode and there was silence everywhere inside of
what I've called the gated institutional narrative, because.
To acknowledge it. Yeah. They really have to throw out how much research.
We don't know. I don't know, but it,
it puts the question out how much research is compromised by the
laboratory breeding protocols and breeding rotations from a single point of
failure at the Jackson laboratories in bar Harbor, Maine.
Wow.
Episode 19. Oh, get on it. And,
and you will hear me in a way where you' will just say,
Eric is the biggest Dick I've ever heard in my life,
but it's all to push Brett to act, actually talk.
You should have 'em back on the show to talk about it's it's killer.
I would love.
To. Yeah. So he just wants to, he kind of wants to soft dance.
It is that what it is soft step. It.
He's just wrong. I mean, here, here's the problem.
There's a point after which I'm not Mr. Nice guy.
And I'm just like a adamant mm-hmm <affirmative> Brett is simply wrong. It's a,
it's a result and a story that needs to be told if there is another side to the
story, we need to hear the other side of the story. Um,
and my goal is to have, carolreider say, you know, what?
This interaction did happen,
and I probably could have handled this better because she has work that she's
done,
which is beyond question some of the most important work that has nothing to do
with anything Brett has done, but it does not give,
uh, that laboratory,
the scientific right to deny the existence of this interaction,
the importance of the interaction.
And because there are potential Onstream consequences in pharmaceuticals,
we need to have an answer. And every answer is interesting.
Like if the laboratory mice having rat radically elongated telome
is not a problem in some way. That's fascinating.
How could you have an animal that has this huge adaptation to the laboratory?
Not, uh, affect things that would be interesting if it does affect things.
That's fascinating. Well, especially if you're,
if you're running tests on it thatt have anything to do with hillomelast right.
Well, no, but if it doesn't have to do, like, for example,
let's say you have a really toxic substance, right?
And it causes a lot of cell death that requires histological repair air.
Well, if you have huge, longtelome,
you're gonna have an ability to metabolize that toxicity very much better.
Right? Right. You you'll be able to take the insult that comes from this.
And so these mice are probably pre naturally disposed towards radical
histological repair. That's why they remain youthful and young.
And if you test something that might be, you know,
if you're doing toxicology studies, it could be that thetelomes,
even though you're not testing,
thetelomes what you're actually doing is picking up that these broken mice are
like the world champs of repair, but they suck at cancer.
Like all die of cancer, all of them. Yeah.
Almost if essentially all the mice that with rat ly elongated tomes,
let go long enough, all die of cancer because they're,
they're tricked out for one special thing, which is recovery.
We, we, yeah, we are the best at repair. Oh, wow. Right.
So think about it as the theory of death and the clear way all of the noise.
There are two ways that, that nature can't figure out, uh,
and escape from either you dive IM mortality,
which is that you think all your cells want to wanna live forever.
You know, and that's a huge death, a huge danger, or we call it a resource,
like leak in computers or they die.
Because the only thing nature can figure out to do is to say,
you only get a finite number of cell divisions, uh, up front.
Now there's some adjustments to the theory, but if you only get a, like, if you,
if you look at the moles on my face, which are, uh, people love to comment on,
in the comment section,
they probably started as a runaway replica replicative process that
arrested at the border of the mole, uh, in order to keep the,
from killing me. Right? So we have cells that go rogue all the time.
But then what happens is, is that there's some means of making sure that it,
the process doesn't take it down the entire organism,
but think about the 30 trillion assassins, uh, as the cells in your body,
all of which might kill you at any moment, it's like terrifying.